			  Quick Installation

If your system is one of the supported systems with a subdirectory in
the machines directory you should be able to build and install the
system by executing

	configure
	make
	make install

at the shell level in the main source directory. If your system is not
one of the supported ones this may still work. If not, look at the
Makefile produced by `configure' (or at Makefile.in if configure
fails) and see if you can choose parameters that work. If configure
does not work for you, please let me know so I can fix it so it does.


			     More Details

1. Configuration

The `configure' script was created with GNU autoconf. It tries to
figure out a few things about your system and uses that information to
create a Makefile. After running configure you should look at the
Makefile produced by configure to see if the configuration parameters
make sense. The README files in the machines subdirectories give some
values for these parameters I have used.

By default, the XLISP-STAT library files will be put into the the
directory XLSLIB=/usr/local/lib/xlispstat, and the executable will be
put into BINDIR=/usr/local/bin.  You will need write permission for
these directories to install XLISP-STAT.  If you want to use alternate
locations for the executable and library, you can run configure as

	configure --prefix=/my/dir/prefix

The default is equivalent to

	configure --prefix=/usr/local

You can specify alternate X11 includes and libraries with, for example,

	--x-includes=/usr/openwin/include
and
	--x-libraries=/usr/openwin/lib

options. To use gcc, add

	--with-gcc

I have not tested this on all available systems, so it may need some
extra work.

An alternate C compiler can be specified by setting the CC environment
variable to the compiler. From csh, for example,

	(setenv CC /bin/c89; configure)

should do it. 


2. Make

The make should build the executable, byte compile the lisp files, and
create a saved memory image.

After the make you can do

	xlisp tests/test

to run a minimal set of tests. These tests use random data and there
may be a failure or two in the math tests -- usually in 5 or 6 and in
22-25. This is usually not a problem. But you should not see lots of
failures.

I will work on these tests to make them not fail unless there is
reason to worry.


3. Make Install

This step installs a shell script in BINDIR and the executable,
workspace and lisp files in XLSLIB. The script will try to create all
directories it needs, so it either needs permission to do that or the
directories need to exist.
